---
{
    "title": "Lesson 201.1",
    "slt": ["201.1"],
    "type": "Lesson",
    "description": "Writing Student Learning Targets",
    "videoURL": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZEDEWyiuZA",
    "lastEdited": "2023-09-13",
    "author": "Andamio Team"
}
---

> Learning targets are concrete goals written in student-friendly language that clearly describe what students will learn and be able to do by the end of a class, unit, project, or even a course. They begin with an “I can” statement and are posted in the classroom. The term target is used intentionally, as it conveys to students that they are aiming for something specific. The EL Education Core Practices use the following criteria to determine if a learning target is strong.
>
> Source: [Leaders of Their Own Learning](https://eleducation.org/resources/leaders-of-their-own-learning-chapter-1-learning-targets/)

## What is a Student Learning Target?

**Student Learning Targets (SLTs)** are the building blocks of an Andamio Course. The first step in building a **PBL Course** in Andamio is to write a set of Student Learning Targets that describe what students will learn and be able to do after completing the course.

Our goal is to empower people. At Andamio, we believe that the words "I can..." are essential, because this language puts students at the center of their own learning.

Every learning target should include an action verb that describes what students will do. Let's look at some examples.

---

## Example #1: Bicycle PBL
Let's imagine that our goal is to build a PBL Course about bicycles. Here are some examples of learning targets:
- I can ride a bicycle
- I can repair a bicycle.

These are good learning targets because they describe what students will be able to do after completing the course. We will continue to work with this example in the next lesson.

---

## Example #2: Learning about Andamio

In this course, there are a few big things we want you to be able to do. Here is how we can represent them with learning targets:

- I can write a Student Learning Target. (This SLT is introduced in this lesson.)
- I can write a Lesson in Andamio.
- I can publish a PBL Course in Andamio.

These SLTs are pretty good, and they provide a high-level overview of what you will be able to do. But they are not quite complete. That's ok. In the rest of this Module, we will use this as an example and refine the list.

---

## Your Turn: Draft a List of SLTs

Think about a Course you want to build in Andamio. Write two or three student learning targets that describe what students will be able to do after completing the course.

You can write in anywhere: in a notebook, your favorite note-taking software, or even in a Discord chat with your team.

In the next three lessons, we will continue to refine your list of SLTs.

---

## Keep Learning

### Further Reading
- [Leaders of Their Own Learning](https://eleducation.org/resources/leaders-of-their-own-learning-chapter-1-learning-targets/)

### Meet Up + Build Community Expertise
