---
{
    "title": "Lesson 201.2",
    "slt": ["201.2"],
    "type": "Lesson",
    "description": "Assignments and Supporting SLTs",
    "videoURL": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZEDEWyiuZA",
    "lastEdited": "2023-09-13",
    "author": "Andamio Team"
}
---

Now that you have written the first few Student Learning Targets for your PBL Course, you can start thinking about how students will learn, and demonstrate expertise with, each of these skills.

The is where **Assignments** come in. Think of an Assignment as a guided Project that Learners will complete. You might already have ideas for projects in the course you are building. Think about how you will support students.

## What is an Assignment?
A Assignment is the action -- it is the thing students will do which provides opportunities for learning.

To learn more, tet's continue with our examples.

## What is the difference between "Assignments" and "Lessons"?
- Assignments are the final result.
- Lessons provide ***scaffolding*** along the way.

---

## Example #1: Bicycle PBL
- Riding a bike is good, but what about safety
- Repairing a bike is good, but how will we know the names of the parts we are fixing?
- Would it help to have some optional supporting SLTs for riding? Ie training wheels (this gives us a nice metaphor)
- Would it help to have some more specific SLTs for repair?

---

## Example #2: Learning about Andamio
This documentation is our **Andamio PBL Course**. In the previous lesson, we drafted some learning targets to capture our ideas about what you will learn by reading this documentation. We can use these SLTs to start thinking about Projects:

{% table %}
* SLT
* Assignment
---
* I can write a Lesson in Andamio.
* I can publish a PBL Course in Andamio.
---
* Write Your First Lesson in Andamio
* Publish an Andamio PBL Course
{% /table %}

If our goal is for you to learn to write a lesson in Andamio, there is a little bit more you'll need to know. For example, Lessons are written in [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/). If you have never used Markdown before, you might want some help with that. So let's write a supporting SLT for that:

- I can format a document with Markdown

We also want you to be able to Publish a Course in Andamio. This requires some background knowledge:

- I can make a merge request to a project on GitLab.
- I can fork this Andamio template and use NodeJS to run it on my computer.
- I can show my Course Outline in my instance of Andamio.

These might be optional for some people. Maybe only one person on your team needs this support. Maybe you want to hire the Andamio to handle some of the technical details. Still, we provide them here.
---

## Your Turn: Define Assignments and Supporting SLTs

Look at the Student Learing Targets you drafted in [Lesson 201.1](/course/module/201/2011).

### Step 1: Define an Assignment

### Step 2: Write 1-2 Supporting SLTs
These might:
- Support - stepping stones
- Add specifics

---

## Where we're going
How to give the right amount of preview about where this is going?