---
{
  "title": "Cardano Browser Wallet installed",
  "slt": ["100.1"],
  "type": "Lesson",
  "description": "Pre-requisites: Cardano Browser Wallet installed",
  "videoURL": "https://youtu.be/4YQsIQpAQ8E",
  "lastEdited": "23Oct2023",
  "author": "Z"
}
---

# Getting Started With MeshJS - SLT 100.1

SLT: I have a Cardano Browser wallet extension installed on my computer.

Most users interact with dApps via 'browser wallets' which usually come in the form of extensions to their browser to enable them to interact easily with the blockchain.  Mesh has support for Cardano wallets which accord with CIP-30 ("Cardano Improvement Proposal 30"), and a pre-requisite for the course is having at least one installed.

There are a number of different wallets to choose from, including Eternl, Nami, Gamechanger, and many others.  While they all vary in terms of their design, workflow and some details, so long as the implementation faithfully complies with CIP-30, they should offer a common API enabling the dApps to communicate with them.

Where you can obtain the extension depends on your browser: for example, in Brave one can use the menu to go to `preferences > extensions`, similarly for Firefox, and for Chrome you can access them via menu or the Chrome Web Store.

#### Caution!
It is very important that you add only extensions you trust to your browser. It is always worth double-checking that the wallet you are adding is the correct one from the right source. For added security, you can also limit extensions to only interact with a subset of websites.