---
{
  "title": "",
  "slt": ["100.4"],
  "type": "Lesson",
  "description": "",
  "videoURL": "",
  "lastEdited": "",
  "author": "",
}
---

# Getting Started With MeshJS - SLT 100.4

Student Learning Target: I can integrate Mesh into a new Project.

In this section, you will learn how to start a project integrated with MeshJS using two methods. The first method will be to setup the project from scratch manually starting from installing NextJS and configuring the Mesh Provider. Then in the second method you will setup the project using Starter Templates.

## First Method: Starting a Project Manually

### Step-1: Next.js Installation Along With Typescript

Open your terminal then copy and paste the following commands:

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest --typescript
```

After that in your terminal there are questions appear, follow the answers as exemplified below

Need to install the following packages:

create-next-app@13.5.6

Ok to proceed? y

√ What is your project named? ... mesh-app-1

√ Would you like to use ESLint? ... Yes

√ Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? ... Yes

√ Would you like to use `src/` directory? ... No

√ Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) ... No

√ Would you like to customize the default import alias (@/\*)? ... No

### Step-2: Install MeshJS Package

```bash
cd mesh-app-1
npm install @meshsdk/core @meshsdk/react
```

### Step-3: Add Webpack In next.config.js File

Open the next.config.js file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```typescript
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
  webpack: function (config, options) {
    config.experiments = {
      asyncWebAssembly: true,
      layers: true,
    };
    return config;
  },
};
module.exports = nextConfig;
```

### Step-4: Add MeshProvider

Open the pages/_app.tsx file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```typescript
import "../styles/globals.css";
import type { AppProps } from "next/app";
import { MeshProvider } from "@meshsdk/react";

function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }: AppProps) {
  return (
    <MeshProvider>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </MeshProvider>
  );
}

export default MyApp;
```

### Step-5: Import meshsdk/react Library In Main Page

Open the pages/index.tsx file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following simple code example:

```typescript
import { CardanoWallet } from "@meshsdk/react";

export default function Home() {
  return <CardanoWallet />;
}
```

The page/index.tsx file is the main page of your web application. You can modify the simple code example above according to the project idea you are going to build.

### Step-6: Run The Application On The Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

After that, open a browser, direct the URL to http://localhost:3000. You will see the CardanoWallet component coming from the meshsdk/react library

## Second Method: Starting a Project Using Starter Templates

Prepare a new directory to start this second example. Open your terminal then copy and paste the following command:

### Step-1: Install Next.JS Integrated Mesh.JS Using Starter Templates

```bash
npx create-mesh-app mesh-app-2 -t starter -s next -l ts
cd mesh-app-2
```

You will see the next.config.js file, the pages/\_app.tsx file, and the MeshJS packages in the package.json file, have been configured automatically

### Step-2: Run The Application On The Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

After that, open a browser, go to http://localhost:3000. You will see that the main-page pages/index.tsx is an example of a ready-made web application and there is a CardanoWallet component that comes from the meshsdk/react library. You can make modifications according to your project ideas.

A few notes regarding second method using starter templates, in first method you setup NextJS from the beginning. If you setup NextJS version 13 and above there is an option to use TailwindCSS, so in first method you can setup NextJS integrated MeshJS along with TailwindCSS but in second method using starter templates, TailwindCSS is not installed. To install TailwindCSS on NextJS you can use the following documentation reference https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/nextjs.