---
{
  "title": "102.1: Mesh Providers",
  "slt": ["102.1"],
  "type": "Lesson",
  "description": "Mesh Providers",
  "videoURL": "",
  "lastEdited": "",
  "author": "Writer: Jingles Reviewer: Z"
}
---

# Mesh React - SLT 102.1

Student Learning Target: I can set up Mesh Provider so that I can use Mesh React Components and Hooks.

## Learn More About the `MeshProvider`

In module 100.4 you learned how to integrate Mesh into a new project. Actually, whether you realized it or not, you have already implemented the Mesh `Provider` in the `pages/_app.tsx` file. The `MeshProvider` is a component that uses React context features. In React, a 'context' allows you to share data or state across applications without needing to pass props directly from component to component. 

The `MeshProvider` provides context that contains the configuration, state, or data needed by the web applications you build. One of the most concrete examples is when a user connects their wallet on the main page.  If the user then visits another page, the Mesh Provider plays a role in ensuring tha application "knows" that the wallet is still connected.  You can read more about the React Provider pattern [here](https://mortenbarklund.com/blog/react-architecture-provider-pattern/).

_important note: when we say 'Provider' we are referring only to a React component called `MeshProvider`. This should not be confused with the blockchain service "providers" that Mesh implements that allow us to query or interact with the blockchain via third-party services (e.g. Blockfrost, Koios). We shall introduce these in a future lesson._

This is an example of Mesh Provider implementation code in the `pages/_app.tsx` file.

```typescript
import "../styles/globals.css";
import type { AppProps } from "next/app";
import { MeshProvider } from "@meshsdk/react";

function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }: AppProps) {
  return (
    <MeshProvider>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </MeshProvider>
  );
}

export default MyApp;
```

## Place CardanoWallet Components In Navbar

In this section, you will learn how to create a Navbar that contains CardanoWallet components. When moving between pages, the Navbar you created will remain in its position.  Most importantly you will see evidence of the implementation of the MeshProvider which plays a role in ensuring the wallet is still connected. So when you move between pages you will see that the connection status (connected / disconnected) of your wallet will not change.

### Step-1: Install Next.JS Integrated Mesh.JS Using Starter Templates

```bash
npx create-mesh-app navbar-cardanowallet -t starter -s next -l ts
```

In this example, we will name the project `navbar-cardanowallet`. We shall also install [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/), a popular and powerful CSS design framework.

### Step-2: TailwindCSS Installation

```bash
cd navbar-cardanowallet
npm install -D tailwindcss postcss autoprefixer
npx tailwindcss init -p
```

After the installation process is complete, we need to do some configuration for Tailwind. Locate the `tailwind.config.js` and `postcss.config.js` files. Open the `tailwind.config.js` file then delete all the code in the file and replace it with the following code:

```javascript
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  content: [
    "./app/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx,mdx}",
    "./pages/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx,mdx}",
    "./components/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx,mdx}",

    // Or if using `src` directory:
    "./src/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx,mdx}",
  ],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  plugins: [],
};
```

After that, open the `styles/globals.css` file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```css
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

### Step-3: Create Navbar and Layout Components

Create a folder called `components` in the pages directory

```bash
mkdir pages/components
```

Create a file called `Navbar.tsx` in the `components` folder

```bash
touch pages/components/Navbar.tsx
```

Open the `pages/components/Navbar.tsx` file then copy-paste the following code:

```typescript
import Link from "next/link";
import { CardanoWallet } from "@meshsdk/react";

export default function Navbar() {
  return (
    <div className="flex bg-black text-white p-5 justify-between">
      <div className="flex">
        <Link href="/" className="mr-5 hover:font-bold text-xl">
          Home
        </Link>
        <Link href="/users" className="hover:font-bold text-xl">
          Users
        </Link>
      </div>
      <CardanoWallet />
    </div>
  );
}
```

Create a file called Layout.tsx in the components folder

```bash
touch pages/components/Layout.tsx
```

Open the `pages/components/Layout.tsx` file then copy-paste the following code:

```typescript
import Navbar from "./Navbar";

export default function Layout({ children }: any) {
  return (
    <>
      <Navbar />
      <main>{children}</main>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Step-4: Add Layout And MeshProvider Component

Open the `pages/\_app.tsx` file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```typescript
import "../styles/globals.css";
import type { AppProps } from "next/app";
import { MeshProvider } from "@meshsdk/react";
import Layout from "./components/Layout";

export default function App({ Component, pageProps }: AppProps) {
  return (
    <MeshProvider>
      <Layout>
        <Component {...pageProps} />
      </Layout>
    </MeshProvider>
  );
}
```

Step-4 is quite a crucial step because here you are implementing the `MeshProvider` and `Layout` components that you created. Both components use the React context feature.

### Step-5: Create The Main-Page And Users-Page

Open the `pages/index.tsx file`, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```typescript
import { useWallet } from "@meshsdk/react";

export default function Home() {
  const { connected } = useWallet();

  return (
    <div className="p-3">
      <h1 className="text-2xl font-bold">Home Page</h1>
      {!connected ? (
        <p>
          The wallet is{" "}
          <span className="text-red-500 font-bold">disconnected</span> at
          home-page
        </p>
      ) : (
        <p>
          The wallet is{" "}
          <span className="text-green-500 font-bold">connected</span> at
          home-page
        </p>
      )}
    </div>
  );
}
```

Create a folder called `users` in the pages directory

```bash
mkdir pages/users
```

Create a file called `index.tsx` in the users folder:

```bash
touch pages/users/index.tsx
```

Open the `pages/users/index.tsx` file then copy-paste the following code:

```typescript
import { useWallet } from "@meshsdk/react";

export default function UserPage() {
  const { connected } = useWallet();

  return (
    <div className="p-3">
      <h1 className="text-2xl font-bold">User Page</h1>
      {!connected ? (
        <p>
          The wallet is{" "}
          <span className="text-red-500 font-bold">disconnected</span> at
          user-page
        </p>
      ) : (
        <p>
          The wallet is{" "}
          <span className="text-green-500 font-bold">connected</span> at
          user-page
        </p>
      )}
    </div>
  );
}
```

Notice that the code for the main-page and the users-page has the same pattern and logic.  In the tsx code there is a conditional rendering pattern using the ternary operator with the following conditions:

 * if connected is `false` then the page will display text containing the word "disconnected" in red color
 *  if the value of connected is `true`, the page will display text containing the word "connected" in green color
 
This code also contains `useWallet`, which is a Wallet hook. `useWallet` has various parameters and methods, one of which is used here.  It returns the value `true` which means the wallet is connected. In the next modules 102.2-102.6, you will learn more about the Wallet hooks.

### Step-6: Run the application on the development server

```bash
npm run dev
```

Now open a browser, go to the URL http://localhost:3000. You will see the main-page or Home-Page which has a Navbar, and in the right corner of the Navbar there is the rendered `CardanoWallet` component. Connect your wallet, and then you should see the words "The wallet has been disconnected at home-page" change to "The wallet has been connected at home-page". 

Next try to switch pages to the User-Page by clicking Users on the Navbar (or directing changing the url to http://localhost:3000/users ).The word "connected", which is colored green, should not change, which means the wallet remains connected even if you change pages. You should also see that the CardanoWallet component in the right corner of the Navbar has not changed and still shows the nominal balance.

You can modify the code examples in this module according to your project ideas. Feel free to make modifications and create something different while applying the same principles from code example above to practice your skills as a developer.
