---
{
  "title": "101.1: Start a Project with Mesh",
  "slt": ["101.1"],
  "type": "Lesson",
  "description": "Start a Project With Mesh",
  "videoURL": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jKP391zpy6Q",
  "lastEdited": "2024-01-26",
  "author": "James"
}
---

In this section, you will learn how to start a project integrated with MeshJS using two methods. The first method will be to setup the project from scratch manually starting from installing NextJS and configuring the Mesh Provider. Then in the second method you will set up the project using Starter Templates.

## Method #1: Starting a Project Manually

### Step 1: Next.js Installation Along With Typescript

Open your terminal then copy and paste the following commands:

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest --typescript
```

After that in your terminal there are questions appear, follow the answers as shown here:

```bash
Need to install the following packages:

create-next-app@13.5.6

Ok to proceed? y
√ What is your project named? ... mesh-app-1
√ Would you like to use ESLint? ... Yes
√ Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? ... Yes
√ Would you like to use `src/` directory? ... No
√ Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) ... No
√ Would you like to customize the default import alias (@/\*)? ... No
```

### Step 2: Install MeshJS Package

```bash
cd mesh-app-1
npm install @meshsdk/core @meshsdk/react
```

### Step 3: Add Webpack In `next.config.js` File

Open the next.config.js file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```typescript
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
  webpack: function (config, options) {
    config.experiments = {
      asyncWebAssembly: true,
      layers: true,
    };
    return config;
  },
};
module.exports = nextConfig;
```

### Step 4: Add `MeshProvider`

Open the `pages/_app.tsx` file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following code:

```typescript
import type { AppProps } from "next/app";
import { MeshProvider } from "@meshsdk/react";

function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }: AppProps) {
  return (
    <MeshProvider>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </MeshProvider>
  );
}

export default MyApp;
```

### Step 5: Import `@meshsdk/react` Library In Main Page

Open the `pages/index.tsx` file, delete all the code in the file then replace it with the following simple code example:

```typescript
import { CardanoWallet } from "@meshsdk/react";

export default function Home() {
  return <CardanoWallet />;
}
```

The `page/index.tsx` file is the main page of your web application. You can modify the simple code example above according to the project idea you are going to build.

### Step 6: Run The Application On The Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

After that, open a browser, direct the URL to `http://localhost:3000`. You will see the `CardanoWallet` component coming from the meshsdk/react library

## Method #2: Starting a Project Using Starter Templates

MeshJS provides multiple templates at [MeshJS website](https://meshjs.dev/starter-templates), and we will proceed with the `Starter` template.

Prepare a new directory to start this second example. We would Open your terminal then copy and paste the following command:

### Step 1: Install Next.JS Integrated Mesh.JS Using Starter Templates
Prepare a new directory to start this second example. Open your terminal then copy and paste the following command:

```bash
npx create-mesh-app mesh-app-2 -t starter -s next -l ts
cd mesh-app-2
```

You will see the next.config.js file, the `pages/_app.tsx` file, and the MeshJS packages in the package.json file, have been configured automatically

### Step 2: Run The Application On The Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open a browser and go to `http://localhost:3000`. You will see that the main-page `pages/index.tsx` is an example of a ready-made web application and there is a `<CardanoWallet />` component that comes from the `meshsdk/react` library. You can make modifications according to your project ideas.

A few notes regarding second method using starter templates, in first method you setup NextJS from the beginning. If you setup NextJS version 13 and above there is an option to use TailwindCSS, so in first method you can setup NextJS integrated MeshJS along with TailwindCSS but in second method using starter templates, TailwindCSS is not installed. To install TailwindCSS on NextJS you can use the following documentation reference at [official documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/nextjs).
